==Building==

You should have: Boost, ODE, OGRE, OIS, and GDK (gdk dev headers) installed. 

You need to download, build, and install OGRE and OIS. I use Eihort (Ogre 1.4.5). Earlier versions won't work. At the very least, you should install OGRE, OIS, ode, and they're respective development headers (the -dev packages). Note the build system currently assumes ogre is installed using the default /usr/local/ install prefix not /usr or /. Once I learn more about autools, I may be able to work around that. Until then, you can update the configure.ac ogre_inc variable if you have it in different places.
 
Note that Ogre should be configured with freeimage disabled.

./configure --disable-freeimage.

OGRE/OIS should be installed in usr/include (or update configure.ac accordingly).
The renderer needs plugins in the local directory. There is a script make_plugins.sh in 
/src/ogreRenderer
Edit this script to have it point at the correct locations (currently it assumes ogre libs installed in /usr/local, and source tarball in $HOME)

Then do a 

./configure && make 

from the evolve directory.

cd src/ogreRenderer

./makePlugins.sh

./testOgreRenderer

(to see ?pretty? graphics)

cd src/server

./mommaServer

Runs the server (currently not hooked into ogreRenderer).
Smoke test used to hook into the server, but now this is being phased into the ogreRender test.

This project will probably eventually use QT as well.

You may want to install: nvidia-cg.

You do not want: freeimage (I supply my own codec handler in OGRE using GDK)

nvidia-cg is for OGRE, and OGRE can be configured to not use it with --disable-cg. I don't use cg in my code, so it should be fine to not have it (I didn't have it for awhile), as long as you get OGRE to build without it.

For more about the dependencies of my dependencies, see the respective websites for those projects. 




==Links==
Basics:
  * [http://www.boost.org/ boost home page]
  * [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=7586 boost download page]
  * [http://www.cygwin.com/ cygwin] - never tried it with this, but a better place to start than Visual Studio ;)

Client stuff:
  * [http://www.ogre3d.org/ Ogre] 
  * [http://developer.nvidia.com/object/cg_toolkit.html#downloads nvidia-cg] - (optional)
  * [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=149835 OIS]
  * [http://www.ode.org/ ODE]
  * [http://www.gimp.org/~tml/gimp/win32/downloads.html GTK]


And someday, we may just need this to get gtk for the client:
  * [http://gladewin32.sourceforge.net/modules/wfdownloads/viewcat.php?cid=14 GTK]

All this stuff should be available via a decent [http://gentoo-wiki.com/MAN_emerge package manager]. So you really only need to download & install this stuff if you intend 
build on windows. (You brave person you)

OGRE and OIS should NOT be installed via your package manager. I don't configure OGRE to use freeimage library for one, and for two, it keeps things clean. That said, you can do it if you want, and if you set it up right, everything should work.

Misc:
  * [http://gpwiki.org/index.php/ODE_Object_tutorial ODE tutorial] - seems decent from glancing at it. Especially since I added some stuff :)